README.md, before:

# Introduction

This repository demonstrates how to integrate the TGFX graphics library using vcpkg for offline dependency management. TGFX is Tencent's open-source lightweight 2D graphics library that provides high-performance cross-platform rendering for text, geometries, and images.

## TGFX vcpkg Integration Approach

**Important Note:** This project uses a special approach for TGFX integration with vcpkg that differs from standard vcpkg usage:

- **vcpkg Role**: Used solely for fetching TGFX source code, not for TGFX dependency management
- **Third-party Dependencies**: Managed using the [depsync](https://github.com/domchen/depsync) tool instead of vcpkg
- **Build System**: TGFX and its dependencies are compiled using the [vendor_tools](https://github.com/libpag/vendor_tools) build system

This hybrid approach allows us to leverage vcpkg's source management capabilities while maintaining control over the dependency resolution and build process through specialized tools designed for TGFX's requirements.

We are considering full vcpkg adaptation in future releases to provide a more standardized integration experience.

## Prerequisites

### Download and Install vcpkg

Please refer to the official vcpkg installation guide: https://vcpkg.io/en/getting-started.html

## Platform-Specific Build Instructions

### macOS Platform

#### Building with CLion (Recommended)

1. **CLion with Vcpkg integration**  
   Please refer to the official CLion documentation for configuring vcpkg integration: https://www.jetbrains.com/help/clion/package-management.html

2. **Build and Run**
   1. CLion will automatically detect CMakeLists.txt and begin configuration
   2. Wait for vcpkg to download and build TGFX dependencies (initial build may take considerable time)
   3. Once build is complete, click the run button to execute the demo

#### Command Line Build

```bash
# Create build directory
mkdir build && cd build

# Configure CMake (replace with your vcpkg path)
# This command will automatically download and install vcpkg third-party libraries
cmake .. -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=/path/to/vcpkg/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake

# Build project
cmake --build .

# Run demo
./demo
```

### Windows Platform

#### Visual Studio Build

```cmd
:: Create build directory
mkdir build
cd build

:: Configure CMake (replace with your vcpkg path)
:: This command will automatically download and install vcpkg third-party libraries
cmake .. -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=C:\path\to\vcpkg\scripts\buildsystems\vcpkg.cmake

:: Optional: Specify architecture and build type
:: cmake .. -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=C:\path\to\vcpkg\scripts\buildsystems\vcpkg.cmake -A x64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
:: cmake .. -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=C:\path\to\vcpkg\scripts\buildsystems\vcpkg.cmake -A Win32 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
```

**Important:** Ensure that the Visual Studio toolchain used to build TGFX matches the toolchain used to build the Windows demo. Mismatched toolchains will result in linking errors.

After running the cmake command, a `demo.sln` solution file will be generated. Open this file in Visual Studio and build the project to generate the executable file.

### Web Platform

**Prerequisites:** Install TGFX using vcpkg in the web directory:
```bash
# Navigate to web directory and install TGFX
cd web
vcpkg install --triplet=wasm32-emscripten
```

**Note:** By default, TGFX builds with multi-threading support (wasm-mt). To build single-threaded TGFX instead, modify `ports/tgfx/tgfx-functions.cmake` line 38 from `set(ARCH "wasm-mt")` to `set(ARCH "wasm")` before running `vcpkg install`.

To build and run the web demo:

```bash
# Navigate to web directory
cd web

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Build for multi-threaded WebAssembly (recommended)
npm run build

# Alternative build options:
# npm run build:st      # Single-threaded WebAssembly
# npm run build:debug   # Debug build with multi-threading
# npm run build:st:debug # Debug build with single-threading

# Start development server
npm run server

# Alternative server options:
# npm run server:st     # Serve single-threaded build
# npm run server:mt     # Serve multi-threaded build
```

Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:3000` to view the demo.

### OHOS Platform (HarmonyOS)

**Prerequisites:** Install TGFX using vcpkg in the OHOS directory:
```bash
# Navigate to OHOS directory and install TGFX
cd ohos
vcpkg install --triplet=arm64-ohos
# Using "vcpkg install tgfx:x64-ohos" for x64 architecture
```

**Note:** By default, the OHOS demo uses ARM64 architecture. To build for x64 architecture instead:
1. Install x64 TGFX: `vcpkg install --triplet=x64-ohos`
2. Modify `ohos/demo/build-profile.json5` and change `"abiFilters": ["arm64-v8a"]` to `"abiFilters": ["x86-64"]`

#### Building with DevEco Studio

1. **Install DevEco Studio**  
   Download and install DevEco Studio from the official HarmonyOS developer website: https://developer.harmonyos.com/en/develop/deveco-studio

2. **Open Project**
   1. Launch DevEco Studio
   2. Open the `ohos` directory as a project
   3. Wait for the IDE to sync and configure the project

3. **Build and Run**
   1. Connect a HarmonyOS device or start an emulator
   2. Click the "Run" button in DevEco Studio
   3. The demo will be built and deployed to your device/emulator

## Project Structure

```
tgfx-vcpkg-demo/
├── CMakeLists.txt              # CMake build configuration
├── main.cpp                    # macOS/windows demo source code
├── vcpkg.json                  # vcpkg manifest file
├── vcpkg-configuration.json    # vcpkg configuration
├── README.md                   # Project documentation
├── web/                        # Web platform project
│   ├── package.json            # Web build scripts and dependencies
│   ├── build.js                # Web build script
│   ├── server.js               # Development server
│   └── demo/                   # Web demo source code
├── ohos/                       # OHOS platform project
│   ├── demo/                   # OHOS demo application
│   ├── hvigorfile.ts           # OHOS build configuration
│   └── build-profile.json5     # OHOS build profile
└── ports/                      # Custom vcpkg ports
    └── tgfx/                   # TGFX port configuration
        ├── portfile.cmake      # Port build script
        ├── vcpkg.json          # Port dependency configuration
        ├── usage               # Usage instructions
        ├── scripts/            # Build scripts
        └── triplets/           # Platform configurations
```

## Getting Help

- [TGFX Official Repository](https://github.com/Tencent/tgfx)
- [vcpkg Official Documentation](https://vcpkg.io/)
- [CMake Official Documentation](https://cmake.org/documentation/)
- [DevEco Studio Documentation](https://developer.harmonyos.com/en/develop/deveco-studio)

## Contributing

Issues and Pull Requests are welcome to improve this demonstration project. Please ensure your contributions follow the existing code style and include appropriate documentation.

---

**Note:** This is a demonstration project designed to showcase TGFX integration with vcpkg. For production use, please adapt the configuration according to your specific requirements.

Commit message:

Improve web build system and documentation
- Enhanced web/build.js with cross-platform compatibility:
  * Fixed Windows command line length limitation issues
  * Added intelligent EMSDK path detection with multiple fallback methods
  * Implemented vcpkg ninja tool detection for consistent build environment
  * Replaced Unix-specific commands with Node.js cross-platform APIs

- Updated README.md with comprehensive setup instructions:
  * Added vcpkg environment variable configuration guide
  * Included EMSDK installation prerequisites for web platform
  * Provided clear step-by-step instructions for all platforms

These changes ensure reliable builds across Windows, macOS, and Linux systems.

README.md, after:

# Introduction

This repository demonstrates how to integrate the TGFX graphics library using vcpkg for offline dependency management. TGFX is Tencent's open-source lightweight 2D graphics library that provides high-performance cross-platform rendering for text, geometries, and images.

## TGFX vcpkg Integration Approach

**Important Note:** This project uses a special approach for TGFX integration with vcpkg that differs from standard vcpkg usage:

- **vcpkg Role**: Used solely for fetching TGFX source code, not for TGFX dependency management
- **Third-party Dependencies**: Managed using the [depsync](https://github.com/domchen/depsync) tool instead of vcpkg
- **Build System**: TGFX and its dependencies are compiled using the [vendor_tools](https://github.com/libpag/vendor_tools) build system

This hybrid approach allows us to leverage vcpkg's source management capabilities while maintaining control over the dependency resolution and build process through specialized tools designed for TGFX's requirements.

We are considering full vcpkg adaptation in future releases to provide a more standardized integration experience.

## Prerequisites

### Download and Install vcpkg

Please refer to the official vcpkg installation guide: https://vcpkg.io/en/getting-started.html

**Important:** After installing vcpkg, you need to add it to your system PATH or set it as a temporary environment variable:

**Option 1: Add to System PATH (Recommended)**
- **Windows**: Add the vcpkg installation directory to your system PATH environment variable
- **macOS/Linux**: Add `export PATH="/path/to/vcpkg:$PATH"` to your shell profile (`.bashrc`, `.zshrc`, etc.)

**Option 2: Temporary Environment Variable**
```bash
# Set temporary environment variable (replace with your vcpkg path)
export VCPKG_ROOT=/path/to/vcpkg
export PATH="$VCPKG_ROOT:$PATH"
```

This ensures that the `vcpkg` command is available globally in your terminal.

## Platform-Specific Build Instructions

### macOS Platform

#### Building with CLion (Recommended)

1. **CLion with Vcpkg integration**  
   Please refer to the official CLion documentation for configuring vcpkg integration: https://www.jetbrains.com/help/clion/package-management.html

2. **Build and Run**
   1. CLion will automatically detect CMakeLists.txt and begin configuration
   2. Wait for vcpkg to download and build TGFX dependencies (initial build may take considerable time)
   3. Once build is complete, click the run button to execute the demo

#### Command Line Build

```bash
# Create build directory
mkdir build && cd build

# Configure CMake (replace with your vcpkg path)
# This command will automatically download and install vcpkg third-party libraries
cmake .. -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=/path/to/vcpkg/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake

# Build project
cmake --build .

# Run demo
./demo
```

### Windows Platform

#### Visual Studio Build

```cmd
:: Create build directory
mkdir build
cd build

:: Configure CMake (replace with your vcpkg path)
:: This command will automatically download and install vcpkg third-party libraries
cmake .. -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=C:\path\to\vcpkg\scripts\buildsystems\vcpkg.cmake

:: Optional: Specify architecture and build type
:: cmake .. -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=C:\path\to\vcpkg\scripts\buildsystems\vcpkg.cmake -A x64 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
:: cmake .. -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=C:\path\to\vcpkg\scripts\buildsystems\vcpkg.cmake -A Win32 -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
```

**Important:** Ensure that the Visual Studio toolchain used to build TGFX matches the toolchain used to build the Windows demo. Mismatched toolchains will result in linking errors.

After running the cmake command, a `demo.sln` solution file will be generated. Open this file in Visual Studio and build the project to generate the executable file.

### Web Platform

**Prerequisites:** 

1. **Install Emscripten SDK (EMSDK)**

   For detailed installation instructions, refer to: https://emscripten.org/docs/getting_started/downloads.html

2. **Install TGFX using vcpkg in the web directory:**
   ```bash
   # Navigate to web directory and install TGFX
   cd web
   vcpkg install --triplet=wasm32-emscripten
   ```

**Note:** By default, TGFX builds with multi-threading support (wasm-mt). To build single-threaded TGFX instead, modify `ports/tgfx/tgfx-functions.cmake` line 38 from `set(ARCH "wasm-mt")` to `set(ARCH "wasm")` before running `vcpkg install`.

To build and run the web demo:

```bash
# Navigate to web directory
cd web

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Build for multi-threaded WebAssembly (recommended)
npm run build

# Alternative build options:
# npm run build:st      # Single-threaded WebAssembly
# npm run build:debug   # Debug build with multi-threading
# npm run build:st:debug # Debug build with single-threading

# Start development server
npm run server

# Alternative server options:
# npm run server:st     # Serve single-threaded build
# npm run server:mt     # Serve multi-threaded build
```

Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:3000` to view the demo.

### OHOS Platform (HarmonyOS)

**Prerequisites:** Install TGFX using vcpkg in the OHOS directory:
```bash
# Navigate to OHOS directory and install TGFX
cd ohos
vcpkg install --triplet=arm64-ohos
# Using "vcpkg install tgfx:x64-ohos" for x64 architecture
```

**Note:** By default, the OHOS demo uses ARM64 architecture. To build for x64 architecture instead:
1. Install x64 TGFX: `vcpkg install --triplet=x64-ohos`
2. Modify `ohos/demo/build-profile.json5` and change `"abiFilters": ["arm64-v8a"]` to `"abiFilters": ["x86-64"]`

#### Building with DevEco Studio

1. **Install DevEco Studio**  
   Download and install DevEco Studio from the official HarmonyOS developer website: https://developer.harmonyos.com/en/develop/deveco-studio

2. **Open Project**
   1. Launch DevEco Studio
   2. Open the `ohos` directory as a project
   3. Wait for the IDE to sync and configure the project

3. **Build and Run**
   1. Connect a HarmonyOS device or start an emulator
   2. Click the "Run" button in DevEco Studio
   3. The demo will be built and deployed to your device/emulator

## Project Structure

```
tgfx-vcpkg-demo/
├── CMakeLists.txt              # CMake build configuration
├── main.cpp                    # macOS/windows demo source code
├── vcpkg.json                  # vcpkg manifest file
├── vcpkg-configuration.json    # vcpkg configuration
├── README.md                   # Project documentation
├── web/                        # Web platform project
│   ├── package.json            # Web build scripts and dependencies
│   ├── build.js                # Web build script
│   ├── server.js               # Development server
│   └── demo/                   # Web demo source code
├── ohos/                       # OHOS platform project
│   ├── demo/                   # OHOS demo application
│   ├── hvigorfile.ts           # OHOS build configuration
│   └── build-profile.json5     # OHOS build profile
└── ports/                      # Custom vcpkg ports
    └── tgfx/                   # TGFX port configuration
        ├── portfile.cmake      # Port build script
        ├── vcpkg.json          # Port dependency configuration
        ├── usage               # Usage instructions
        ├── scripts/            # Build scripts
        └── triplets/           # Platform configurations
```

## Getting Help

- [TGFX Official Repository](https://github.com/Tencent/tgfx)
- [vcpkg Official Documentation](https://vcpkg.io/)
- [CMake Official Documentation](https://cmake.org/documentation/)
- [DevEco Studio Documentation](https://developer.harmonyos.com/en/develop/deveco-studio)

## Contributing

Issues and Pull Requests are welcome to improve this demonstration project. Please ensure your contributions follow the existing code style and include appropriate documentation.

---

**Note:** This is a demonstration project designed to showcase TGFX integration with vcpkg. For production use, please adapt the configuration according to your specific requirements.
